hi I'm Mark Wood I'm a professional
freelance cartoonist and today I'm going
to be showing you how to do all cartoons
and caricatures today I'm just going to
show you how to draw a cartoon character
so if you draw an oval like that just
for the outline of the face now if you
want to draw the nose first then you
come basically just come just inside of
the oval and come out words the size of
the nose doesn't really matter you can
obviously do a bigger one or smaller one
depending on what sort of character on
to draw but we're going to do one about
like that now the easiest thing now is
to draw the eyes so you do to again to
oval shapes one just touching this side
of the nose and another one that's
partly ruled by this one just think of
the luggage slightly and we do the
pupils to whatever they ever do the
eyebrows are just too curvy limit lines
just a little way above the eyes saij
those eyebrows rise right from here
we're going to follow down and do the
rest of the face so you follow this part
of the over that you've already drawn
down and when you clean it out when you
get to the bottom just to little curvy
line there it's going to be the neck pen
and another one on the other side and
then you come up following the oval
round again and then we're going to put
in in here which is just basically like
a drawing a sea
and another see inside is the inner part
of deer for the hair obviously you can
do many different hairstyles but we're
going to do just sort of like a scruffy
sort of sticking up type here so we're
just going to just make a few random
lines that don't really need to be exact
because nobody's here perfect anyway so
we're just coming out around just both
literally to probably the end of the eye
and just do form a confusion of here and
their marks coming down like that so
that what's the back of the year now
from here we're going to draw the mouth
so if we start roughly up here just
under the nose and we're going to do a
big smiley mouth so we're going to come
up getting towards the ear and we put a
little mark on the end for the cheek
line and from there if you come down you
follow it up to the bottom of the mouth
and there is with a nice peach sort of
cheery grin and as well the tummy in
like that which is black in the middle
of the mouth that makes the tongue shy
at war and it's more sort of cheer happy
and smiling now moving on to the body
we're going to do them in a role in X
sweater so we should do a liner bomb
just at the bottom of the neck like that
and from basically where the chin is
that's top of the neck you come out
around and join it in above there on the
back like that now for the body you want
to come down and we just do a rough
shape so we're going do it lightly we're
going to come down like this then if I'm
along the bottom and back up so it's
just a nice simple shape
like that there we move on to the legs
they do some don't quite straight lines
because obviously the legs on time
restraint choice you could sort of come
in sort of arca doubt a little bit
towards the bottom like that and the
back one can be slightly straighter so
they come down like that and do a line
roughly sort of in the middle just
slightly cups over you come down and
then we join the bottom and the trousers
up like that and we've got the basal
body and length a little line in the
middle there for a crease in the
trousers the shoes are easy so we are
going to do him with foot coming out
here like that and one moment so just do
a basic shape to begin with and then we
shall fill it in once we've got the
shape roughly that we want and if you
just come around of tiny bit underneath
that'll be the sole of the shoes and
that's the outline the shoes done now we
just do a little bit a line come across
here for the front and same on the other
foot and then just a few little curved
lines to represent the laces
they're just too dark for that up and
we've got the shoes for the arms which
we haven't missed off them forgotten
them we do them coming along from the
top we're going to do a MIDI sort of
hands on his hip so we're going to come
out and we're gonna come back in and
we're gonna do the same analysis
basically you'd want to triangle off the
side of his body on each side just two
triangles like that then you just small
a triangle slightly lie that you've got
the two triangles there and all we do
now is so that they'd look quite so
angular he's just round off those elbows
would be and just on the inside just
round those slightly as well and then
all that's left to do for the man is his
hands so you'll only see part of his
hand because it's behind his back so you
come up from here and you're just going
to come basically round and it's going
to represent the edge of his hand but
obviously there's going to be two
fingers you can see you could just do a
line in the middle and there you go
there's the two fingers just like that
and on this side you again you're only
going to see part of the ham because
she'll quit on his hips you're going to
come around and back out to the hand
like deft now just give him a nice
stripe on his jumper so it doesn't quite
it's boring just you just go like that
just a peony shape you want just to make
the jumper just that doesn't look quite
as plain and in that we were just do the
future angles to give it a little bit of
it
if there's any lines by this that aren't
for starfish you want and then you can
just go over them again making them a
little bit thicker and that is how to
draw a cartoon character
you